# ambient-temperature-monitor

This project collects data from to 8 Ambient Weather Probe Temperature Sensors. 
Like this one: https://ambientweather.com/wh31p-water-proof-probe-temperature-sensor

Each sensor send temperature and humidity data using RF signal. 
The RF signal is read by RTL-SDR compatible hardware and then is decoded usiing RTL_433 library from here: https://github.com/merbanan/rtl_433
The rest is just collecting the data and present it in user friendly format.

My setup:
RTL-SDR compatible USB dongle supported by RTL_433. Like this one: https://hackerwarehouse.com/product/rtlsdr/
8 AmbientWeather Temperature Sensors
1 Raspberry Pi 3B. 

The software:
- Debian based OS with bare minimum utils installed. 
- RTL_433 tool configured to run as a system service. It is responsible for decoding RF signals and send decoded data to the data collection service:
- A data collection service. It is Python based and stores the data in:
	- RRD (Round Robin Database). The beauty of RRD is that data ocupies very little space and gives good history for years by using average values. RRD tool also provides good graph images.
	- In the future I may consider MySQL and Graphana but in my opinion it is overkill.
- Web server for the UI representation. I am using Nginx because it is light. The webpage is super simple because it is just references to the images generated by RRD.

Docker file is for generating docker image with everything included.
K8s file is for deploying the image in a cluster.

	
	
	
